so you're ready to buy your new laptop
and you go down to your local
electronics super warehouse and you're
immediately dumbfounded because there's
70 different laptops to choose from some
of them are five hundred dollars some of
our thousand dollars summer two thousand
dollars or even more how do you pick one
that's right for you when there's that
much selection well we're here to help
here's what you do you look in the
Sunday circulars for circuit city or
best buy or compusa or wherever you look
for the low price deal of the week on
laptops and you make sure of one thing
you just make sure that it has 512
megabytes of RAM if you're just doing
normal stuff like email and web browsing
it'll be perfect let's say you'd like to
do just a little bit more analysis than
that then there's six things for you to
think about let's go through a one by
one and then we'll do them in detail the
first one is the processor the second
one is the amount of RAM the third one
is the size of the screen then you've
got the size of the hard disk the type
of optical drive and whether or not it
has wireless networking if you think
about all six of those things and get
what you want you'll have the perfect
laptop let's go through them in detail
in the processor space what you've got
is a vegetable soup of options you've
got some prawns and seller ons and
Pentiums and all this kind of stuff if
you're a normal person doing normal
stuff then it really doesn't matter you
can just buy the laptop that's on sale
and you'll be fine if you're doing heavy
lifting kind of stuff big spreadsheets
photo manipulation video something like
that then you want to look at something
called the gigahertz of the processor
and really you want to look for
something with more than two gigahertz
of processing power if you have that
you'll be able to do the big stuff when
you're looking at ram it usually comes
in three different sizes there's 256
megabytes there's 512 megabytes and
there's more like one gigabyte of ram
256 is not enough 512 megabytes is right
for most people if you're doing the
heavy lifting stuff go with one gigabyte
or more when you think about screen size
most low-cost laptops have about a
thousand by 700 pics
and that's fine for normal use if you
want more buy more you'll just pay extra
for more pixels on the hard disk most
cheap laptops are going to have about 40
gigabytes of space and that really is
enough space for most people you can
also find 60 or even 80 gigabytes and if
you think you're going to be starting a
lot of songs or photos you might want to
look at something like that on the
optical drive you're going to have three
options a normal optical drive like a CD
or a DVD reader a CD writer or a DVD
writer the CD writer is nice because it
gives you an easy way to do backups a
DVD writer is nice if you're going to do
a lot of backups or if you want to
create your own DVDs then there's the
wireless networking option almost all
laptops today come with something called
a tow to dot 11 g wireless networking
that lets you use your laptop in
restaurants coffee shops places like
that or on campus you want to be sure
that your laptop has it so here's the
scoop if you're doing normal stuff buy a
cheap laptop make sure it has 512
megabytes of RAM and you'll be fine if
you're doing some serious work look at
some of the other options we discussed
and pick the laptop that's right for you
i'm marshall brain and that's how stuff
works